# PPP County Report Generator
The aim of this project is to create a program which will analyze publicly available U.S. PPP (Payroll Protection Program) data for a given county. To see a sample of the output of this program please look inside the `reports` folder.

## Content Overview

### Folder: perm_data
This folder contains two files which are necessary for the creation of reports.  The first, `ppp2fips.csv`, is a CSV file which associates fips codes to county names. The second is a template for the README file to be included within each report.

### Folder: reports
This folder contains a subfolder for each county report that has been generated. For more details on the contents of these subfolders, please see the README that is contained in each.

### Scripts
The script `datasets.py` contains functions to compile data from the U.S. Small Business Administration for further analysis.  The Jupyter Notebook `county_report_generator.ipynb` calls `datasets.py` to access data, then creates a full county report. The Jupyter Notebook contains information on how to customize reports and choose counties.

## How to Create Reports
Reports can be generated by downloading this entire folder and then running `county_report_generator.ipynb`. To select which county to create a report for you must first look up the FIPS code of the county and then enter it in the cell under the header `Choose Target FIPS Here`. 
>[!NOTE]  
>Loading the data from the SBA website takes considerable time. If a user wants to generate multiple reports it is best to: 
>1. Select a FIPS code, enter it, then run the Jupyter Notebook. 
>2. Without exiting return to the cell `Choose Target FIPS Here` and select a new FIPS code. 
>3. Execute that cell and all below it in order (avoiding the need to re-execute the earlier cells where the data is loaded).

More details on using the generator can be found in the comments within `county_report_generator.ipynb`.

## Troubleshooting
* Before running the report generator, please ensure you have all the required libraries installed (see below for a complete list of the required libraries which are not Python defaults).
* If the report generator crashes early, there may have been trouble fetching the data from the SBA website.  The SBA regularly updates web addresses which can break the links in the script `datasets.py`.  If this happens you can manually update the list of links located in the function `ppp`.
* A report is missing assets. Every report should include a `county_report.xlsx` and `REAME.md` file. Additional visualizations can be turned off at the time of creation. Navigate to the section "Choose Files to Save" in the Jupyter Notebook `county_report_generator.ipynb` to adjust these settings. 

### Required Libraries
* Pandas
* Numpy
* Matplotlib
* Seaborn
* Plotly

